So we're gonna go over a little bit of
a basic setup to make sure that you guys
can have everything running on
your system, you're feeling good,
and we can start programming.
So for
those that have not set up TypeScript or
Rust yet,
this will hopefully do everything for you.
So create a folder wherever you
wanna create it, your favorite.
Most favorite place for me,
that's gonna be personal/rust-typescript,
however you want to set it up.
Then inside the folder,
we should probably execute a few things.
We should create an npm.
We should npm install ts-node
typescript nodes/types.
You can install your favorite version
of a TypeScript compiler, SWC, esbuild,
whatever you wanna do.
If you're proficient enough
to build your own setup,
we're gonna be executing TypeScript a few
times, so do it the way you wanna do it.
So I'm gonna just copy all of this.
I'm gonna go over to my rust-typescript,
and I'm gonna npm init,
npm install, ts-node typescript,
and node/types, and then tsc init.
And then because we're such good,
okay, now.
>> It's at type slash node.
>> My goodness, I had it backwards.
>> My goodness, yeah, npm,
I knew that, okay, it's types/node.
Okay, so sometimes I type
examples in from my brain and
not copy them from the command line.
So things happen,
I'm just a victim right now.
Okay, tsc of my own short-sightedness.
Okay, so there we go.
Create a tsc file.
It's always good to have one of those.
And since we are such
amazing safe programmers,
let's jump down to the strict
portion of TypeScript.
And let's make sure we have all
the things super safe, right?
Because we are super safe programmer,
so I'm gonna go tsconfig.
And I'm gonna go all
the way down to strict, and
I'm just gonna take all
of these amazing options.
Matt Pocock would be just so
happy with me right now.
And go to right here.
Take them all out.
There we go.
Look at how beautiful that is.
Look at how safe we are.
Practically Rust already.
You just got to go down on it.
I mean, technically,
you don't have to do this.
I just think it's really good TypeScript
practice to always make sure you have
the most strict version of TypeScript
because it's gonna save you,
especially this one.
This one's very interesting.
There's another one.
This one's super interesting as well.
It changes how TypeScript
works a little bit.
Great times, all right, you can enable,
disable, whatever you want.
You don't have to do any of this.
Next, we need to install Rust.
So here you go.
You can just go look for install Rust.
You should find this very
benign script on the Internet.
Don't worry, it's not a big deal.
You should always execute scripts
you find on the Internet.
Just pipe it right into your shell,
maybe throw a little sudo in there just
to really assert your authority of trust.
It's Rust, okay?
It's reliable.
It's gonna hold you safely while it
does whatever it does on your system.
So to know that you've done it correctly,
you should be able to call cargo
init in the same folder, and
now you'll have a Rust project and a
TypeScript project all in the same folder.
And of course, if you are using Vim or
Telescope, it is always good to make
sure that you have all of your git
status stuff set up correctly.
Cuz when you do a cargo init,
it does git status.
Notice that I don't have, say,
node_modules ignored right now.
So you might wanna make sure
that your gitignore is nice.
So I'm gonna add in node_modules,
look at that.
I'm gonna commit everything cuz
it turns out INITIAL COMMIT.
Some fuzzy finders don't
find over files unless
they're committed into the Git repository.
So, just so you know.
So for my VSCoders out there,
you may wanna disable inlay hints.
They're very distracting.
They pop up all over
the place as you type.
There are really truly
poor user experience.
Everyone I've ever seen use it
plus with Rust, gets confused, and
they're just everywhere.
And they're brightly colored and
they glow.
I have no idea who made them.
But if you have neovim and
you have inlay hints on, nice job.
It actually is super cool to use
ghost text at the end of the line so
it doesn't interrupt your code or
its spacing.
It's beautiful.
Also disabled Copilot if you have Copilot.
I know Copilot is pretty
trendy these days.
The problem with Copilot is that when
someone else types the program for you,
you may be better and
better at recognizing valid code.
But you yourself will have absolutely no
idea how to write the code by yourself.
If we were to turn off Copilot
after the end of the day, and
you try to write the struct, you probably
wouldn't even be able to write the struct
in a simple implementation, because you've
just let somebody else write it for you.
You learn heavily by interacting
with the physical world, so
interact with the physical world with
these beautiful ten fingers that you have.